---
sectionclass: h2
sectionid: acr
parent-id: upandrunning
title: Create private highly available container registry 
---

Instead of using the public Docker Hub registry, create your own private container registry using Azure Container Registry (ACR).

### Tasks

#### Create an Azure Container Registry (ACR)

{% collapsible %}

```sh
export ACR_NAME=akschallenge${RANDOM}$$; echo $ACR_NAME
az acr create --resource-group akschallenge --name ${ACR_NAME} --sku Standard
```

{% endcollapsible %}

#### Use Azure Container Registry Build to push the container images to your new registry

{% collapsible %}

Login to the registry

```sh
az acr login --name ${ACR_NAME}
```

Clone the application code on Azure Cloud Shell

```sh
git clone https://github.com/Azure/azch-captureorder.git
cd azch-captureorder
```

Use Azure Container Registry Build to build and push the container images

```sh
az acr build -t "captureorder:{% raw %}{{.Run.ID}}{% endraw %}" -r ${ACR_NAME} .
```

> **Note** You'll get a build ID in a message simliar to ``Run ID: ca3 was successful after 3m14s``. Use `ca3` in this example as the image tag in the next step.

{% endcollapsible %}

#### Configure your application to pull from your private registry

Before you can use an image stored in a private registry you need to ensure your Kubernetes cluster has access to the container registry.

##### Grant AKS access to Azure Container Registry

Authorize the AKS cluster to connect to the Azure Container Registry using the AKS cluster's Service Principal.

Follow the Azure docs to learn how to [grant access using Azure Active Directory Service Principals](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-registry/container-registry-auth-aks).

{% collapsible %}

```sh
export AKS_RESOURCE_GROUP=akschallenge
export AKS_CLUSTER_NAME=akschallenge
export ACR_RESOURCE_GROUP=akschallenge

# Get the id of the service principal configured for AKS
CLIENT_ID=$(az aks show --resource-group $AKS_RESOURCE_GROUP --name $AKS_CLUSTER_NAME --query "servicePrincipalProfile.clientId" --output tsv)

# Get the ACR registry resource id
ACR_ID=$(az acr show --name $ACR_NAME --resource-group $ACR_RESOURCE_GROUP --query "id" --output tsv)

# Create role assignment
az role assignment create --assignee $CLIENT_ID --role acrpull --scope $ACR_ID
```

{% endcollapsible %}

After you grant your Kubernetes cluster access to your private registry, you can update your deployment with the image you built in the previous step.

Kubernetes is declarative and keeps a manifest of all object resources. Edit your deployment object with the updated image. 

> **Note** This is not a recommended method to edit a deployment, nor is it a best practice. However, there is value in understanding the declarative nature of Kubernetes; it’s also an opportunity to watch the scheduler do what it’s supposed to do.

{% collapsible %}

From your Azure Cloud Shell run:

`kubectl edit deploy`

Replace the image tag with the location of the new image on Azure Container Registry. Replace `<build id>` with the ID you got from the message similar to ``Run ID: ca3 was successful after 3m14s`` after the build was completed.

```yaml
spec:
  containers:
  - name: captureorder
    image: <unique-acr-name>.azurecr.io/captureorder:<build id>
```

> **Note** Do not just copy and paste this section if you created a Kubernetes secret as there is no reference to `imagePullSecrets`.

Quit the editor and run `kubectl get pods`

If you successfully granted Kubernetes authorization to your private registry you will see one pod terminating and a new one creating. If the access to your private registry was properly granted to your cluster, your new pod should be up and running within 10 seconds.

{% endcollapsible %}

> **Resources**
>
> * <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-registry>
> * <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-registry/container-registry-auth-aks>
> * <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/acr?view=azure-cli-latest#az-acr-build>